# Healing Feeling Shit Show

[The Healing Feeling Shit Show - Emotional Potty Training For Grown-Ups](http://healingfeelingshitshow.com/) With Rachel Kaplan, M.A, M.F.T. 

- [001 HFSS Trailer](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/001-hfss-trailer/id1451139254?i=1000428820832)
  > Do you want well-being, self-love and emotional resilience? It's not as easy as it seems, is it? Well become emotionally potty trained with Rachel Kaplan, MA, MFT while she guides you through the fun healing journey of a lifetime. This trailer will give you a sense of the mission of the first season of the show as well as introduce you to her and Scott, her awesome sound engineer, and musician. 
- [HFSS Episode 1 All Aboard the Feelings Movement!](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/hfss-episode-1-all-aboard-the-feelings-movement/id1451139254?i=1000429285578)
  > Having dedicated 25 years to healing herself from a devastating tragedy and others, Rachel Kaplan, MA, MFT has created this fun, informative, and effective transformational course within a podcast, where you can cultivate true well being and Emotional Resilience: the new happy. 
- [HFSS Episode 2 How Did We Get So Wounded in the First Place?](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/hfss-episode-2-how-did-we-get-so-wounded-in-the-first-place/id1451139254?i=1000429285579)
  > This episode illuminates the psychological and biological factors that create what Rachel refers to as core wounds, or the types of beliefs that get lodged into us at bone deep levels where we think we aren’t enough, or are too much, or aren’t worthwhile, or worthy. 
- [HFSS Episode 3 How Do We Heal Our Wounded Parts?](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/hfss-episode-3-how-do-we-heal-our-wounded-parts/id1451139254?i=1000429285577)
  > This episode gives step by step tips on how to take the journey down into the psychological basement and how to establish a relationship with the parts of you that you are sure make you unlovable or doomed to be left. 
- [HFSS Episode 4: Rachel's Memoir of Initiation](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/hfss-episode-4-rachels-memoir-of-initiation/id1451139254?i=1000430230058)
  > This is a special, intimate, heart-breaking memoir style narrative that gives you a front row seat to the journey that turned Rachel into a child fixated on healing and desperate for relief. You will enter this story as a 12 year old filled with anxiety and infatuation. Leave the journey broken hearted with unanswered questions, the same questions with launched HFSS. 
- [HFSS 5 How Do We Actually Move Our Feelings?](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/hfss-5-how-do-we-actually-move-our-feelings/id1451139254?i=1000430707928)
  > This episode is the practical heart of the HFSS. It guides listeners step by step through mastering their bodily dashboard by learning skills like becoming aware, curious, turning toward and then becoming their pain. HFSS's mindfulness and embodiment practices enable listeners to actually be emotionally potty trained and of course.
- [Trouble Shooting For Moving the Feels!](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/trouble-shooting-for-moving-the-feels/id1451139254?i=1000431192243)
  > Wow, that sounded easier, right? It’s not. Here are the most common problems that people have when they are trying to become emotionally potty trained and easy ways to solve these problems so you can actually support the painful emotions moving through your body and claim the radical well being that is available to you if you heal yourself.
- [HFSS Episode 7 Anger & Mini Therapy Session](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/hfss-episode-7-anger-mini-therapy-session/id1451139254?i=1000431661186)
  > This episode troubleshoots the most taboo emotion around: Anger. Learn how to have a healthy relationship with your anger. Experience the first unscripted therapy sessions Rachel does with a stranger. 
- [HFSS Episode 8 Sadness & Mini Therapy Session](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/hfss-episode-8-sadness-mini-therapy-session/id1451139254?i=1000432451005)
  > This episode troubleshoots one of the most human emotions that if we can’t let flow, we lose access to our love and our hearts. Reconnect to the flow of sadness to be brave enough to fall in love, and honor what you have loved and lost. A beautiful therapy session. Helpful tips, strategies, and of course, a poop story. 
- [HFSS Episode 9: Trembling in Fear & Mini Therapy Session](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/hfss-episode-9-trembling-in-fear-mini-therapy-session/id1451139254?i=1000433550726)
  > This episode troubleshoots one of the most uncomfortable emotions to be with; fear. It’s ok buddy. We’re all afraid. Let’s stop calling it anxiety and stress, and learn to move through this intense emotion. A fun therapy session with a budding young rockstar about how he is propping up his insecure scared parts with instruments, stages, and tours. 
- [HFSS Episode 10 Burning in Shame & Mini Therapy Session](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/hfss-episode-10-burning-in-shame-mini-therapy-session/id1451139254?i=1000434009466)
  > This episode explores the core of the onion of emotional wounding, and Rachel’s favorite emotion to talk about. The one that is different from the others and such burning b*&ch to move through the body. SHAME. Actually heal shame so you can enjoy yourself and your life. 