# Healing Emotional Wounds

Many of us have learned to suppress our emotions, to try and focus on something else. In our media rich lives, there is a tendency to fill up our conciousness at every moment, so there's no chance of having to confront our inner awareness.

The core component of emotional healing is presence with and working through our difficult emotion. While it may seem straightforward enough, it's not necessarily pleasant. On the other hand, fully working through and experiencing our emotion relieves us of the pain of trying to suppress painful facts of our existence. 

#### These are podcasts I find useful for working through difficult emotions.

## Healing of Emotional Wounds A Jungian Approach - Alan Mulhern

* [S1.Ep 1. Healing of emotional wounds - a Jungian approach](https://alanmulhern.podbean.com/e/healing-of-emotional-wounds-a-jungian-approach/)
  > Psychotherapy and Healing - a Jungian ApproachThere are a wide range of emotional wounds which are a damage to the sense of self. Just as there are numerous healing mechanisms in the body likewise there is a wide range of healing energies in the psyche. It is of considerable benefit to the practitioner to be familiar with these. An overview is given of the podcasts to follow which include a deep investigation of the healing intelligence in the psyche and the role of the therapist in this process. Prepare to be stretched beyond your traditional trainings and conceptions of how emotional healing takes place. The image accompanying these podcasts is The Sower and the Seed which was drawn by Lindsey C. Harris
* [S1.Ep 2. Healing intelligence as a natural force](https://alanmulhern.podbean.com/e/healing-intelligence-as-a-natural-force/) 
  > Healing energies are a natural intelligence within the psyche promoting the unconscious state of wholeness we call health. This health is, for the most part, intensely desired by those who suffer pain, division, and conflict within themselves; for some it is the central goal of life to recover it. Those who wish to heal the wounds of others as well as their own should know there are different methods to heal psychological distress.
* [S1.Ep 3. The stages of psychotherapy as the context for healing](https://alanmulhern.podbean.com/e/the-stages-of-psychotherapy-as-the-context-for-healing/) 
  > Healing takes place in a context. We construct rituals that provide this. Other disciplines provide their own way of encouraging the healing to take place. In this podcast I outline the Jungian context and based on this my version of the stages of psychotherapy.
* [S1.Ep 4 Style and essence of Jungian therapy](https://alanmulhern.podbean.com/e/the-style-of-jungian-therapy/) 
  > Jungian therapy leans towards a collaboration with the unconscious rather than just grasping its significance. The style of therapy is therefore only analytic in parts and favours a movement of the ego towards the Self. The essence of the therapy lies in the transcendent function - the new centre that emerges which is positioned on the ego-Self axis and facilitates the interaction of both consciousness and the unconscious.
* [S1.Ep 5 The alignment to the deep psyche](https://alanmulhern.podbean.com/e/the-alignment-to-the-deep-psyche/) 
  > A method of alignment, a descent, to the deep psyche is described and a case study provided to demonstate how the “scan” can work. This is a mixture of Oriental and Western technique.
* [S1.Ep 6.  A method of contacting the deep psyche](https://alanmulhern.podbean.com/e/a-method-of-contacting-the-deep-psyche/)
  > The stages of contacting the deep psyche are explained as a practical method for all therapists. This method, starting with inner awareness, proceeds to encounter the area of suffering. One area of the deep psyche (the heart chakra in Hindu philosophy) can experience healing by another (the brow chakra). This is compatible with Western psychotherapeutic knowledge of body centres and focussing awareness.
* [S1. Ep 7. The inter-subjective field between therapist and client](https://alanmulhern.podbean.com/e/the-inter-subjective-field-between-therapist-and-client/)
  > Let us presume that much of the early, more reductive work such as the therapeutic alliance, the analysis of character and family history and so forth has been established. However the alignment to the deep psyche and integration has special considerations of its own and is rather different from the earlier stages.
* [S1.Ep 8.  Attuning to the field](https://alanmulhern.podbean.com/e/the-inter-subjective-field/)
  > The task of therapists in attuning to the inter-subjective field is: 1. To attune to the deep psyche of the client.2. To help locate and express wounds as fully as possible.3. To help clarify, challenge, and where possible, clear out the negativity within the psyche of the client.​4. To stimulate natural healing energy and, where required, contribute their own to aid this process within the client.
* [S1.Ep 9.  Integration step 1: Evaluating the material from the psyche](https://alanmulhern.podbean.com/e/integration-step-1_evaluating-the-material-form-the-psyche/)
  > Integration is the least developed stage in the theory and practice of psychotherapy. Here we examine the first of three steps in this process: the evaluation of healthy or unhealthy material from the psyche.
* [S1.Ep 10.  Integration step 2: the ability to work with the contents of the psyche](https://alanmulhern.podbean.com/e/integration-step-2/)
  > Here we deal with the second part of the integration process - the capacity to work psychologically with the material from the unconscious. Case studies of the varying capacities to work psychologically are given. An unfavourable psychological attitude thus prevents the process of integration even beginning. So what then is a favourable psychological attitude?
* [S1.Ep 11. Integration continued: what it means to work psychologically](https://alanmulhern.podbean.com/e/integration-continued-what-it-means-to-work-psychologically/)
  > Eight dimensions of the capacity to work psychologically are examined. These are: the capacity for introspection	 the ability to express emotion and their truth	 to see oneself and others more objectively	 acceptance of self-responsibility	 awareness that one’s psyche consists of different but inter-related parts	 the conscious attitude is aligned to the unconscious but is also relatively independent	 the existence of a symbolic attitude	 the ability to contact the contents of the deep psyche with the faculty of inner awareness.
* [S1.Ep 12. Integration and the movement to a new centre of the psyche](https://alanmulhern.podbean.com/e/integration-and-the-movement-to-a-new-centre-of-the-psyche/)
  > Integration implies character re-formation, a change in identity structure. This requires greater access to the underlying emotional structure underpinning the ego, which undergoes change thereby stimulating character reform and development. What begins and sustains this change is the power of awareness. Self-reflectivity is the essence of the process. This is the normal but extra-ordinary process of psychotherapy, which seeks, therefore, to reinforce self-awareness by becoming more conscious of the underlying emotional structure, its complexes, difficulties, and healing possibilities. The work of personal development necessitates an intense process of integration which takes time, effort, and considerable courage. Quick solutions are rarely available, especially when the emotional wounds are serious.
* [S1.Ep 13. The wound that won’t heal](https://alanmulhern.podbean.com/e/the-wound-that-wont-heal/)
  > Therapy is not always successful; the deep psyche is not always accessible and even when it is, healing is not guaranteed. Transpersonal vision may be possible but the psyche may not have the capacity to integrate its meaning and energy. Sometimes, parts of the emotional structure are damaged and cannot heal, no matter how heroic the efforts.
* [S1.Ep 14.  The potency of the healing force in the psyche](https://alanmulhern.podbean.com/e/the-potency-of-the-healing-force-in-the-psyche/)
  > The vitality of healing intelligence determines the capacity of a wounded area to heal itself. This energy may be thought of as potency two characteristics of which are:Expressiveness - the capacity of the psyche, suffering a wound, complex or trauma to express its pain in a healthy and effective manner.Receptivity - the capacity of the wounded psyche to listen and be open.While healing intelligence is an expression of the wholeness of the psyche, it is intimately bound up with numerous healthy character components, some of which are constitutional, some the result of early conditioning, some the result of training, and others Self-forged.
* [S1. Ep 15.  Healing intelligence, consciousness and the ego](https://alanmulhern.podbean.com/e/healing-interlligence-consciousness-and-the-ego/)
  > Healing intelligence is integral to the complete functioning of the healthy psyche. It requires the cooperation of consciousness itself, which, when orientated towards healing, is aligned to the deeper psyche, learns from it, but can question it and engage in a healthy dialogue which is transformative for both consciousness and the unconsciousness.The practitioner needs to be aware of the crucial yet variable importance of the ego and of consciousness at each stage of the transformation process and healing journey and be able to judge whether the ego and its defences need challenge or support. However, it is their challenging and dismantling which leads to healing intelligence being released.
* [S1.Ep 16.  Healing and the subtle body/psyche](https://alanmulhern.podbean.com/e/healing-and-the-subtle-bodypsyche/)
  > The role of the therapist in the healing process is rarely one of distance and anonymity. It is one respecting proper clinical boundaries but there are important times when there is co-evolution and mixing of psyches at a deep level and healing intelligence is activated, stimulated and shared. It is useful to think of the Self, the inner directing centre of an individual, as having shared-field properties – not a personal possession but a manifestation of the collective unconscious
* [S1.Ep 17.  How healing Intelligence works in the psyche and how we resist it.](https://alanmulhern.podbean.com/e/how-healing-interlligence-works-in-the-psyche-and-how-we-resist-it/)
  > The cosmic principle of the opposites of creation and destruction, life and death as illustrated in Hindu metaphysics with the dancing Shiva is played out in psyche in many ways of which healing intelligence versus the forces that undermine it is one manifestation.Six ways in which healing works in the psyche are described. There are also numerous impediments in our psyche to this wonderful intelligence functioning properly: twelve are outlined.
* [S1.Ep 18.  Empathic resonance in the field of therapist and client](https://alanmulhern.podbean.com/e/empathic-resonance-in-the-field-of-therapist-and-client/)
  > There may emerge unusual features once the inter-subjective field is activated. A field is an area of influence and a shared field is where two psyches, apparently separate, have temporarily dropped their boundaries and a non-verbal sharing of experience, sometimes in the form of images, sometimes with voices, takes place. This is a manifestation of healing, not belonging to an individual psyche; it is the intelligence that organises the field itself.It is often said that therapists should have empathy. But what is this capacity to enter into the emotions of another and feel things from their point of view? And are there different grades or qualities of empathy? This podcast will provide a perspective and suggest some answers to this important question.
* [S1.Ep 19.  Integration of the Spirit in Psychotherapy](https://alanmulhern.podbean.com/e/integration-of-the-spirit-in-psychotherapy/)
  > The sweetness of the desert breezeYou can’t grasp in your hands.She’s like the waters of the Nile,She comes from other lands.                From: The Sower and the Seed - Isis poem
* [S1.Ep 20.  Questions and Responses on Healing - 1](https://alanmulhern.podbean.com/e/questions-and-responses-on-healing-1/) 
  > My initial question (how does healing work in psychotherapy?) and subsequent search has really turned into a longer series of other questions each of which could be broken down into further questions themselves. Let me add the obvious. The ultimate answer will never be given; but like the pearl of great price it might be intuited, approximated, and hopefully lived. Our knowledge in this field is necessarily limited; one can only reach so far into the unconscious, like wading out from the shore of an ocean.
* [S1.Ep 21.  Questions and Responses on healing - 2](https://alanmulhern.podbean.com/e/questions-and-responses-2-on-the-nature-of-healing-intelligence/)watch?v=AZhYvq7tX-A)
  > THE NATURE OF HEALING INTELLIGENCE Can religions be integrated with a spiritually orientated psychotherapy? Are there psychological skills favouring healing? What is the role of the psychotherapist in this healing process? Is psychotherapy necessary for healing  to take place? Can psychotherapy block the healing process? Can all wounds be healed? What is the wounded healer? Can psychotherapy benefit those on a spiritual path? How is healing connected with individuation and wholeness? What has love and death got to do with it?

## [HEALING FEELING SH*T SHOW](https://healingfeelingsh-tshow.com) with Rachel Kaplan

* [HFSS Episode 1 All Aboard the Feelings Movement!](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/hfss-episode-1-all-aboard-the-feelings-movement/id1451139254?i=1000429285578) 
  > Having dedicated 25 years to healing herself from a devastating tragedy and others, Rachel Kaplan, MA, MFT has created this fun, informative, and effective transformational course within a podcast, where you can cultivate true well being and Emotional Resilience: the new happy. For more info, or to purchase the entire first season all at once so you can pace your own healing sh*t show, go to www.healingfeelingsh-tshow.com
* [HFSS Episode 2 How Did We Get So Wounded in the First Place?](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/hfss-episode-2-how-did-we-get-so-wounded-in-the-first-place/id1451139254?i=1000429285579) 
  > This episode illuminates the psychological and biological factors that create what Rachel refers to as core wounds, or the types of beliefs that get lodged into us at bone deep levels where we think we aren’t enough, or are too much, or aren’t worthwhile, or worthy. For more info, or to purchase the entire first season all at once so you can pace your own healing sh*t show, go to www.healingfeelingsh-tshow.com
* [HFSS Episode 3 How Do We Heal Our Wounded Parts?](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/hfss-episode-3-how-do-we-heal-our-wounded-parts/id1451139254?i=1000429285577) 
  > This episode gives step by step tips on how to take the journey down into the psychological basement and how to establish a relationship with the parts of you that you are sure make you unlovable or doomed to be left. For more info, or to purchase the entire first season all at once so you can pace your own healing sh*t show, go to www.healingfeelingsh-tshow.com
* [HFSS Episode 4: Rachel's Memoir of Initiation](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/hfss-episode-4-rachels-memoir-of-initiation/id1451139254?i=1000430230058) 
  > This is a special, intimate, heart-breaking memoir style narrative that gives you a front row seat to the journey that turned Rachel into a child fixated on healing and desperate for relief. You will enter this story as a 12 year old filled with anxiety and infatuation. Leave the journey broken hearted with unanswered questions, the same questions with launched HFSS. For more info, to purchase the entire first season all at once, go to www.healingfeelingsh-tshow.com
* [HFSS 5 How Do We Actually Move Our Feelings?](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/hfss-5-how-do-we-actually-move-our-feelings/id1451139254?i=1000430707928) 
  > This episode is the practical heart of the HFSS. It guides listeners step by step through mastering their bodily dashboard by learning skills like becoming aware, curious, turning toward and then becoming their pain. HFSS's mindfulness and embodiment practices enable listeners to actually be emotionally potty trained and of course. For more info, or to purchase the entire first season all at once so you can pace your own healing sh*t show, go to www.healingfeelingsh-tshow.com
* [Trouble Shooting For Moving the Feels!](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/trouble-shooting-for-moving-the-feels/id1451139254?i=1000431192243) 
  > Wow, that sounded easier, right? It’s not. Here are the most common problems that people have when they are trying to become emotionally potty trained and easy ways to solve these problems so you can actually support the painful emotions moving through your body and claim the radical well being that is available to you if you heal yourself. For more info on joining the guided and supported course through your own Sh*t Show, go to www.healingfeelingsh-tshow.com
* [HFSS Episode 7 Anger & Mini Therapy Session](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/hfss-episode-7-anger-mini-therapy-session/id1451139254?i=1000431661186) 
  > This episode troubleshoots the most taboo emotion around: Anger. Learn how to have a healthy relationship with your anger. Experience the first unscripted therapy sessions Rachel does with a stranger. For more info, ask questions, apply to do therapy with Rachel on the show, go to www.healingfeelingsh-tshow.com. To take the free test to determine which of the feelings dominates your core wound, and then receive a free kit on how to support that wound and move that feeling, go to www.yourcorewound.com
* [HFSS Episode 8 Sadness & Mini Therapy Session](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/hfss-episode-8-sadness-mini-therapy-session/id1451139254?i=1000432451005) 
  > This episode troubleshoots one of the most human emotions that if we can’t let flow, we lose access to our love and our hearts. Reconnect to the flow of sadness to be brave enough to fall in love, and honor what you have loved and lost. A beautiful therapy session. Helpful tips, strategies, and of course, a poop story. To take the free quiz and receive the free kit on how to move your core wound through your body, go to yourcorewound.com. For more info, go to www.healingfeelingsh-tshow.com.
* [HFSS Episode 9: Trembling in Fear & Mini Therapy Session](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/hfss-episode-9-trembling-in-fear-mini-therapy-session/id1451139254?i=1000433550726) 
  > This episode troubleshoots one of the most uncomfortable emotions to be with; fear. It’s ok buddy. We’re all afraid. Let’s stop calling it anxiety and stress, and learn to move through this intense emotion. A fun therapy session with a budding young rockstar about how he is propping up his insecure scared parts with instruments, stages, and tours. Go to yourcorewound.com to take the quiz about your core wound. For more info, pace your own healing sh*t show, go to www.healingfeelingsh-tshow.com
* [HFSS Episode 10 Burning in Shame & Mini Therapy Session](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/hfss-episode-10-burning-in-shame-mini-therapy-session/id1451139254?i=1000434009466) 
  > This episode explores the core of the onion of emotional wounding, and Rachel’s favorite emotion to talk about. The one that is different from the others and such burning b*&ch to move through the body. SHAME. Actually heal shame so you can enjoy yourself and your life. To understand where to start with your healing, go to yourcorewound.com. 
* [Relationships for Emotional Potty Trained Grown-Ups](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/relationships-for-emotional-potty-trained-grown-ups/id1451139254?i=1000434570082) 
  > This episode looks at attachment theory and healthy relationship through the lens of emotional potty training and self accountability. Learn how the anxious and avoidant attachment styles and how skills you’ve been cultivating to be a healthier partner and person in a relationship can help. Rachel interviews one of the leading trainers in psychobiological attachment couples therapy. And an amazing relationship poop story.
* [How to Deal with The Ch-Ch-Ch-Changes](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/how-to-deal-with-the-ch-ch-ch-changes/id1451139254?i=1000435118378) 
  > This episode helps you use the skills you cultivated through the HFSS, while being able to gracefully support yourself through the changes of your life. You’ll hear follow ups from the four clients from the mini therapy sessions as well as a few more quotes from her clients. More tips, suggestions, and even a little soap boxin…And a special poop prose. 

