# Exploring the Shadow

## The Work - Byron Katie

* [The Work](https://thework.com/) by Byron Katie - (referred by: [EQ Evolution](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/is-your-thinking-causing-you-stress-candice-dick/id1288535512?i=1000397134570))
  * [The Work of Byron Katie](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-work-of-byron-katie/id292263838) -  Byron Katie's (podcast)
    > Byron Katie, founder of The Work, has one job: to teach people how to end their own suffering. As she guides people through the powerful process of inquiry she calls The Work, they find that their stressful beliefs—about life, other people, or themselves—radically shift and their lives are changed forever. Based on Byron Katie's direct experience of how suffering is created and ended, The Work is an astonishingly simple process, accessible to people of all ages and backgrounds, and requires nothing more than a pen, paper, and an open mind. Through this process, anyone can learn to trace unhappiness to its source and deal with it there. Katie (as everyone calls her) not only shows us that all the problems in the world originate in our thinking: she gives us the tool to open our minds and set ourselves free.
* [Podcasts on The Work of Byron Katie](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/podcasts-on-the-work-of-byron-katie/id1170724420), Ernest Holm Svendsen
  - [1. Why The Work Works (1/4): Your Map of Reality](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/1-why-the-work-works-1-4-your-map-of-reality/id1170724420?i=1000377254851) - NOV 1, 2016 - 34 min 
    > The Podcasts on The Work of Byron Katie open with the "Why The Work Works"-series. This series provides a theoretical understanding of how the mind works as a foundation for understanding why The Work is so effective. This first episode is about The Map of Reality - the subjective filter of interpretation that exists between us and the world, which is completely necessary for us to function, but which is also the true cause of all of our problems.
  - [2. Why The Work Works (2/4): The Most Important Thing There Is To Say About Anything](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/2-why-work-works-2-4-most-important-thing-there-is/id1170724420?i=1000377369376) - NOV 1, 2016 - 29 min 
    > The second episode of the "Why The Work Works"-series is about the most important thing there is to say about anything. What is that, you ask? Simply this: there is only now. It is seductively simple, but it is the most important thing there is to say about anything because it means, that anything that isn't now, isn't real. It's a simulation in your mind. And realizing that has enormous consequences. 
  - [3. Why The Work Works (3/4): Creating Meaning](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/3-why-the-work-works-3-4-creating-meaning/id1170724420?i=1000377899906) - NOV 15, 2016 - 41 min 
    > The third episode of the "Why The Work Works"-series explains how we use our simulator (episode 2) and our Map of Reality (episode 1) to create meaning out of our experiences. This creation of meaning is the true cause of any problems we experience, and if we want to change our emotional responses and break out of our limiting beliefs, it is our Map of Reality we need to work on. This is what The Work helps us do.
  - [4. Why The Work Works (4/4): How The Work Works](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/4-why-the-work-works-4-4-how-the-work-works/id1170724420?i=1000378496147) - DEC 1, 2016 - 37 min 
    > The fourth episode of the "Why The Work Works"-series takes the final step all the way to the work itself and explains how the process of The Work uses the aspects we have covered in episode 1-3 to impact our nervous system and change our Map of Reality.
  - [5. How To Do The Work (1): Identifying Your Thoughts](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/5-how-to-do-the-work-1-identifying-your-thoughts/id1170724420?i=1000378988116) - DEC 15, 2016 - 27 min 
    > The Podcasts on The Work of Byron Katie continues with the "How To Do The Work"-series. This series provides specific instructions on how to develop and improve your own practice of The Work. In this, first episode, we focus on the first part of any Work session: How to identify your thoughts and you are introduced to the Judge-Your-Neighbor-Worksheet.
  - [6. How To Do The Work (1B): Identifying Your Thoughts - A Guided Session](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/6-how-to-do-work-1b-identifying-your-thoughts-guided/id1170724420?i=1000378988117) - DEC 15, 2016 - 35 min 
    >This episode is a guided session, supporting you in filling out a Judge-Your-Neighbor-Worksheet. It is intended as a supplement to episode 1 in the "How To Do The Work"-series: Identifying Your Thoughts.
  - [7. How To Do The Work (2): The Four Questions](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/7-how-to-do-the-work-2-the-four-questions/id1170724420?i=1000379489900) - JAN 1, 2017 - 36 min 
    >In this second episode of the "How To Do The Work"-series, we continue to the second part of The Work - asking the four questions. In this episode I take you through the four questions and show you how to apply them to the Judge-Your-Neighbor-Worksheet, you filled out in the previous session.
  - [8. How To Do The Work (3): The Turnarounds](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/8-how-to-do-the-work-3-the-turnarounds/id1170724420?i=1000380666667) - JAN 31, 2017 - 23 min 
    > In this third episode of the "How To Do The Work"-series, we continue to the third part of The Work - the turnarounds. You learn how to identify the correct turnarounds for your oneliners and how to find your examples for each of them. And I invite you to try them out on the Judge-Your-Neighbor-Worksheet, you worked with in the previous session.
  - [9. How to do The Work (4/4): The Subquestions](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/9-how-to-do-the-work-4-4-the-subquestions/id1170724420?i=1000381260685) - FEB 15, 2017 - 32 min 
    > In the fourth and final episode of the "How To Do The Work"-series, we follow up on the turnarounds and I present you with a collection of subquestions to help you dive deeper into question 3: "How do you react, what happens when you believe that thought?". I also offer a facilitation guide to print out and support you through the entire    process and give you a few final tips and tricks to get you good to go.
  - [10. People Doing The Work (1): He Is Confusing Ziya](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/10-people-doing-the-work-1-he-is-confusing-ziya/id1170724420?i=1000382061260) - MAR 1, 2017 - 1 hr 10 min 
    > In this episode we get started on the "People Doing The Work"-series, where you get a chance to listen in as others go through the process. Since this may be the first time your hear anyone actually doing The Work - or the first time your hear anyone other than Byron Katie do it - we will start out with a straight-forward recording of a single    one-liner being worked as part of the process of going through a “Judge-Your-Neighbor Worksheet”. And what I will invite you to notice, is the meditative quality of the client's work - how she is sinking into the questions and allowing the answers to arise by themselves.
  - [11. People Doing The Work (2): My Dad is Too Intense](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/11-people-doing-the-work-2-my-dad-is-too-intense/id1170724420?i=1000383118829) - MAR 25, 2017 - 44 min 
    > The "People Doing The Work"-series continues with an example of how what we put on others are really our own internal, and how underlying beliefs are sometimes the cause of why apparently simple behavior can make us lose our temper. This is also an example of a slightly more complex facilitation occuring out of simply following the flow of the client's    process.
  - [12. People Doing The Work (3): Without a Partner Life Has No Meaning](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/12-people-doing-work-3-without-partner-life-has-no/id1170724420?i=1000384478206) - APR 15, 2017 - 31 min 
    > In this episode of the "People Doing The Work"-series, we look at a facilitation where the client hasn't filled in a worksheet in advance. Instead, the client and the facilitatior simply dive in, searching for the underlying beliefs that are causing the client's distress and    working them as they show up.
  - [13. How to End the Stories that Screw Up Your Life [Audiobook Sample]](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/13-how-to-end-stories-that-screw-up-your-life-audiobook/id1170724420?i=1000417837368)
    > The Podcasts on The Work of Byron Katie have grown into a book! It's called "How to End the Stories that Screw Up Your Life - A Step-By-Step Guide to the Amazing Process of Self-Inquiry" and is available as an audiobook on Audible and a paperback and an eBook on Amazon. These are the first couple of chapters of the audiobook version. Read more on www.theartofbeinghuman.com/endthestories
